## Chapter 02 - Igniting our App

### Que. What is `npm`?
- ### npm is a `Node Package Manager` owned by `GitHub`.
- ### It's a package manager for JavaScript and Node.js.
- ### npm is typically installed alongside Node.js, which includes npm in its installation.
- ### Developers use npm to manage project dependencies.
- ### `Packages` are modules or libraries that can be easily installed and used in applications.
- ### It is commonly used in frontend development.

---

### Que. How to `initialize npm`?
- ### Initialization command:
    ```
    npm init
    ```
    ### `npm init -y` can be used to skip the setup step, npm takes care of it and creates the `package.json` file automatically , but without configurations.
  
---

### Que. What is `jest`?
- ### It is a `JavaScript testing framework` commonly used for testing JavaScript code.
- ### Particularly used for applications built with frameworks like React, Angular, or Vue.js.
- ### It is developed by `Facebook` and is designed to be simple to set up, use, and understand.

---

### Que. What are `bundlers`?
- ### In web development it refers to a tool that optimizes and `bundles web assets` for efficient delivery.
- ### Common bundlers include Webpack, _Parcel_, Vite, and Rollup, these tools combine and compress assets like JavaScript, CSS, and images.
- ### `Parcel and Webpack` are crucial tools in modern web development, offering efficient asset bundling, optimization, and automation to enhance the development workflow and improve the performance of web applications.
- ### The choice between them often depends on the project's size, complexity, and the developer's preferences regarding configuration and flexibility.

- ### `Parcel` installation command:
    ```
    npm install -D parcel
    ```
    ### `-D` is used for development and as a development dependency.

---

### Que. What is the difference between `dependencies` and `devDependencies`?

### **dependencies**:
- ### These are packages that are necessary for the `application to run in production`.
    ### Install Dependencies:
    ```
    npm install <package_name>
    ```
    ### package.json:
    ```json
    "dependencies": {
        "package_name": "^version"
    }
    ```

### **devDependencies**:
- ### These are packages that are `only needed during development`, not in the production environment.
    ### Install DevDependencies:
    ```js
    npm install --save-dev <package_name>
        
          OR
        
    npm install -D <package_name>
    ```
    ### The `-D` flag is a shorthand for `--save-dev`

    ### package.json:
    ```json
    "devDependencies": {
        "parcel": "^2.10.3"
    }
    ```

---

### Que. What is `package.json` file?
- ### The `package.json` file is a configuration file in Node.js projects. It includes project details like name, version, and author.
- ### It also lists `dependencies` (required for the app to run) and `devDependencies` (needed for development).
- ### The "scripts" section defines custom commands. Other information, such as repository, license, and configurations, is also stored here.
- ### It's crucial for managing project settings, dependencies, and scripts using npm or yarn.
- ### This file is mandatory for every project.

---

### Que. What is `package-lock.json` file?
- ### The `package-lock.json` is a file in Node.js projects that ensures everyone working on the project uses the same versions of dependencies.
- ### It lists `exact versions of dependencies and their dependencies`, preventing unexpected updates.
- ### This file is automatically generated by npm and is useful for maintaining consistency in your project.

---

### Que. What is the caret `^` and tilde `~` symbol in package.json or package-lock.json file?
- ### `Caret (^):`
    ### Compatible with the specified version. Allows updates up to, but not including, the next major version.
    ```json
    "dependencies": {
        "package-name": "^1.2.3"
    }
    ```
    ### Example, if the version is 1.2.3, you can install any version in the range 1.2.4 to 1.9.9, but not 2.0.0.

- ### `Tilde (~):`
    ### Approximately equivalent to the specified version. Allows updates up to, but not including, the next minor version.
    ```json
    "dependencies": {
        "package-name": "~1.2.3"
    }
    ```
    ### Example, if the version is 1.2.3, you can install any version in the range 1.2.4 to 1.2.9, but not 1.3.0.

---

### Que: What is `node_modules` folder?
- ### `node_modules` is a folder in a Node.js project that holds the project's external dependencies (libraries and packages).
- ### When you use npm or yarn to install packages, they go into this folder.
- ### It's like a storage place for all the code your project needs to run, and it's `usually excluded from version control`.

---

### Que: What is `Transitive dependencies`?
- ### Transitive dependencies are packages that your project `indirectly depends` on through its direct dependencies.
- ### If your project relies on package A, and A relies on package B, then B is a transitive dependency for your project.

    ```    
    node_modules/
    |-- direct-dependency-A/
    |   |-- transitive-dependency-B/
    |   |-- ...
    |-- direct-dependency-C/
        |-- transitive-dependency-D/
        |-- ...
    ```

---

### Que. List down any 8 `superpowers of Parcel`.
### **Superpowers of Parcel -** [📄Documentation](https://parceljs.org){target="_blank"}
1. ### `Hot Module Replacement (HMR):`
    ### Provides out-of-the-box support for Hot Module Replacement, enabling real-time code updates during development without a full page refresh.
2. ### `Zero Configuration:`
    ### Minimal setup required, allowing developers to start quickly without extensive configuration files.
3. ### `Automatic Asset Handling:`
    ### Automatically resolves and bundles various assets, including JavaScript, CSS, HTML, and more, without explicit configuration.
4. ### `Code Splitting:`
    ### Built-in support for code splitting, allowing developers to split code into smaller, manageable chunks for optimized loading and performance.
5. ### `Minification:`
    ### Automatically minifies and optimizes code (JavaScript, CSS, HTML) for production, reducing file sizes and improving website performance.
6. ### `Image Optimization:`
    ### Includes built-in support for optimizing images during the bundling process, helping to reduce image file sizes without sacrificing quality.
7. ### `File Watcher Algorithm:`
    ### Utilizes an efficient file-watching algorithm to track changes in project files and trigger necessary rebuilds during development. This algorithm is written in C++.
8. ### `Caching While Development:`
    ### Implement smart caching during development to boost build speed by avoiding unnecessary recompilation when dependencies stay unchanged.

---

### Que. What is `npx` command?
- ### `npx` is a command-line tool that comes with npm and stands for `Node Package eXecute`.
- ### It is used to execute Node.js packages and executables directly, without the need to install them globally or locally beforehand.

    ### `Parcel Commands:`
    
- ### For development build:
    ```cmd
    npx parcel <entry_point>
                   ⇓
    npx parcel index.html
    ```
- ### For production build:
    ```cmd
    npx parcel build <entry_point>
                         ⇓
    npx parcel build index.html
    ```

    #### Server running at http://localhost:1234

---

### Que. How to `install React` using npm?
- ### Install `React`:
    ```cmd
    npm install react
    ```
- ### Install `ReactDOM`:
    ```cmd
    npm install react-dom
    ```

    ---

    ### Add this lines into `App.js` file:
    ```js
    import React from "react";
    import ReactDOM from "react-dom/client";
    ```
    ### In `index.html`, for script tag add type attribute:
    ```html
    <script type="module" src="./App.js"></script>
            ⁓⁓⁓⁓⁓⁓⁓⁓⁓⁓⁓⁓⁓
    ```
    ### `type="module":`
    - ### Indicates ECMAScript module syntax in JavaScript.
    - ### Enables the use of `import` and `export` statements.
    - ### Provides encapsulation, preventing global scope pollution.
    - ### Loaded asynchronously for improved performance.
    - ### Requires a server environment due to security restrictions.

---

### Que. What is `.parcel-cache` folder?
- ### The .parcel-cache directory is a folder created by the Parcel bundler `to store cached data during the build process`.
- ### Parcel uses caching to improve build performance by avoiding unnecessary recompilation of unchanged files.

---

### Que. What is `dist` folder?
- ### The dist directory, short for `distribution`, is a commonly used folder name in software development projects.
- ### It contains the compiled, minified, and `optimized files that are ready for deployment`.
- ### Generated during the build process.
- ### Commonly includes JavaScript, CSS, HTML, and other optimized assets.
- ### Typically excluded from version control to avoid unnecessary repository size increases.

---

### Que. What is `browserslist`?
- ### Browserslist is a tool that allows specifying which browsers should be supported in your frontend app by specifying "queries" in a config file.
- ### It's used by frameworks/libraries such as React, Angular and Vue, but it's not limited to them.
    ```json
    "browserslist": [
        "last 2 versions"
    ]
    ```
    ### It indicates that the app should support the `last two versions of major browsers`.